Okay, in this section of the course
we're going to start talking
about how to parse text
using statistical models.
But before doing that, let me just
introduce two views of syntactic
structure that we'll explore
in our parsing models.
So the first view is what's
called constituency parsing.
And the idea of constituency
parsing is that what we do
is that we organize words
into nested constituents.
Let me give you a bit
of an example of that.
So we had long ago this sentence,
Fed raises interest rates.
And so we had the parts of
speech that we've seen before,
that this is a proper noun and
this a verb, and
these are both nouns in the sense
it's the correct parse.
But then above that, what we wanted to say
is these nouns go together to form a noun
phrase, and then the verb and
the noun phrase go together to
form a verb phrase, and everything
goes together to form a sentence.
And so these things up here,
these are our constituents.
And so the claim is that
the part of the sentence,
it's also sometimes shown with square
brackets, interest rates is a constituent,
that it's a unit of the sentence.
Now how do we know what a constituent is?
Well, that's a complex issue, but
here are some of the ideas that we use.
So one big idea is by looking at
the words that stay together and go
together when phrases move around because
of various syntactic constructions.
So in this example here,
we've got these two and
three words, to the children and
about drugs.
And well, something that you'll notice
is that we can actually swap them around
into the opposite order and
that that's fine.
John talked about drugs to the children.
Or you could do other things with them.
So for example,
maybe you could take this one and
front it in certain discourse contexts.
You could say,
to the children John talked about drugs.
And so this is all evidence that each of
these groups of words is a constituent.
On the other hand, if you randomly
reorder the words of a sentence,
normally you get something
that just doesn't work at all.
So here what I've tried to do
is take the word drugs from
the end here and thought, hm, maybe I can
just take it and stick it after taught.
But that doesn't work at all.
So you can't say, this is it down here,
John talked drugs to the children about.
And there are a lot of other tests.
Another test is this idea of
phrasal expansion and substitution.
So for the phrase on the box
you can make it a bigger unit,
like right on top of the box, and you
can make it a smaller unit, like there.
And in general you can
apply these substitutions
in any place where the phrase
on the box can appear.
There are lots of other syntactic tests
that people use for constituency.
Really, if you want to learn a lot about
this you should take a linguistics course
and then you'll see this
all in more detail.
But I hope that's enough
to give a rough idea.
Those were simple sentences.
This is the kind of thing that happens
when you've got big real sentences.
So this sentence is, Analysts said Mr.
Stronach wants to resume a more
influential role in running the company.
And so the idea of constituency structure,
or phrase structure, is that we have this
units, again, that are constituents.
So here's a constituent,
a more influential role.
Here's another constituent which
just is name Mr. Stronach.
And then here are some different
constituents down the bottom.
So running the company is a constituent.
But also this bigger in running
the company is also a constituent.
So constituents nest together.
And these are the kind of parse trees
that NLP people actually spend their time
dealing with.
And we'll talk more about these, but
note just one attribute of them is as
well as actual pronounced words, they're
postulating these unpronounced units
in them as well, called empty elements.
So the straightforward way to model phrase
structural constituency structures, just
as a context-free grammar, which we assume
you've seen somewhere in computer science.
And that is just the idea that
you've got these rules that says,
A rewrites as B C D.
And if you apply these,
then let's say we have B goes to E F.
If you apply these,
you get phrase structure rules,
where this is B, C, D and
then this goes to E, F.
And that gives you
the constituency structure.
But these kind of rules you can write for
other tree symbols.
But if you actually look at what
happens in natural languages,
there's always a lot more structure.
And this is the idea that
gets called X-bar theory.
And what that says is that
in natural languages, by and
large, phrases are headed by particular
kinds of words which then take
modifiers and dependents around them.
So informally we call things a verb
phrase precisely because they have
a verb in the middle of them.
And we call things a noun phrase precisely
because they have a noun that is
the central element of them.
So a noun phrase,
something like the man in the corner,
centrally has the noun man and then
has other modifiers sitting around it.
And so although according
to a context-free grammar,
these are just arbitrary symbols,
in practice we give them names that
reflect this headed structure or
phrase structure.
And the same is true of other categories,
as well, like adjective phrases and
adverb phrases.
So they are a large part
of our category inventory.
We do have other kinds of phrases.
So we have sentences and
various kinds of invert and questioning
sentences which basically correspond to
a subject noun phrase and a verb phrase.
And then they can appear in bigger
complement clauses, these SBAR and
SBAR(Q), which also have something
like a that introducing the sentence.
And various other miscellaneous
stuff happens as well.
Again, you can learn a lot more about
that in a linguistic syntax class.
But this idea of headed phrase structure
is the connection between phrase structure
and the other big approach to syntactic
structure that I want to show you, and
that's dependency structure.
So in dependency structure, the idea is we
directly show for the words of a sentence
which other words depend on, that is,
modify or are arguments of, them.
Let's look at that with this example,
the boy put the tortoise on the rug.
So the head of this whole
sentence is putting,
that that's the central
word of the sentence.
And that's sometimes represented
by having a dependency arc coming
in from the edge, pointing to
the head of the whole sentence.
Okay, so
then put has two arguments itself.
So put's arguments are the boy.
I'm sorry,
it's got three arguments itself,
the tortoise, and on the rug,
where things are put.
So who put what and then where.
Okay, and so then at that point,
we then sort of say, well, boy,
does it have any modifiers or arguments?
Its modifier is the.
Tortoise, does it have any modifiers or
arguments?
Its modifier is the.
And then on, as a preposition,
takes a complement, so
its argument is its complement the rug,
where the rug is the head and
the modifier of rug is the.
And so
this set of arrows I've now drawn here is
a dependency analysis of this sentence.
And this form of dependency
analysis is the other major
syntactic representation we'll use.
Okay, so
I hope that's been enough to give you some
idea of the representations we use for
syntactic structure and how the two main
representations connect to each other.